My name is Jaime
Hunter, and I'm the music specialist
at Birchmount School.
And I'm going to be speaking to you
about implementing
personnel and student relationships.
So at virtual school,
we have many different ways of finding
connection, whether it be through students
who have been in Canada for a long time.
Newcomer students, it doesn't
really matter where someone's from.
We make an effort to make sure
that people feel a sense of belonging
at our school.
It isn't necessarily a bullet point
in our initiatives, but it's a value that
we hold to make sure that our students
are feeling engaged
and enriched and empowered
in their learning and themselves.
Here in my space,
in the music side of things.
When students come to my room
and let's say
I don't actually know who they are,
which is not super common
because I have had a lot of students from
kindergarten up through to middle school.
But let's say
if I didn't know who they were.
One of my first activities
that I do is a listing on.
They give me their favorite
song of the moment or perhaps
favorite songs from childhood,
and they share that with me,
and we use it to talk
through the elements of music
in an objective way and talking
to students about subjectivity.
So what they like or don't like versus
what is actually there.
And I found through a model like that
of focusing on the students choice
that many other students in their class,
maybe, who also don't know
the student yet, find a way to connect
to that student.
That's a great way to engage with.
Well, where did you find that song?
Who share that with you?
Why do you like that so much?
And it gives them a moment
to be uplifted in my space,
to in other spaces in our school.
For example, in an English language
arts classroom.
I know that there are teachers
in our building to run a book club,
so they offer a few different books
for the class to choose from.
And through that process,
students grouped themselves off
with that method.
Students are able to engage
with other learners.
They get to read through chapters,
but teachers can also go and ask
very similar questions,
such as why did you choose this book?
What do you connect
with as your characters
remind you of yourself
or someone you know?
And finding ways to really build
that in our school
has this really beautiful gift,
kindness and finding ways
to uplift everyone around them.
So whether you're running
an extra curricular group or an not,
I run a couple at this school.
Being able to highlight the wins.
We have a morning announcement group
who highlight all of the wins
that are submitted by teachers of sports
games or maybe different rehearsals
going on towards drama festival
or a tour for music.
Or maybe there's a group
that's going to a Dungeons and Dragons
event for the district.
There are many things that go on.
And so finding ways to engage in that
and give your gift as a teacher.
So something that is, low energy
or effort for you that gets a high reward.
So for me, I run a choir.
I run a rock band
to find that engagement with the students
and really let them know that we're here.
Let's make some community.
Let's make some music.
Let's have a good time together.
But taking time to to put that in.